Title: A Bittersweet Song: AHS Music Students Conclude The Long College Audition Season
Author: Julia Rodenberger
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles
Date: MAY 06, 2024
Tags: auditions, music
Description: With ten minutes left in H-block, a symphony of chatter and songs reverberates through the Collins Center foyer.

With ten minutes left in H-block, a symphony of chatter and songs reverberates through the Collins Center foyer. Here, students enjoy an interlude from their core academic classes to explore their creative passions. For a select group of upperclassmen, this constant alternation of academics and creative pursuits has been the core of a months-long college application process.

Senior Abinaya Ganesh spent H-5 on February 28 in the choral room to prepare for an upcoming vocal performance in Providence, Rhode Island. Ganesh, who hopes to major in Classical Voice, is no stranger to traveling out of state for vocal performances. Since applying to colleges in November of 2023, Ganesh has auditioned in person at eleven music conservatoires and universities.

In summary, “It’s been pretty difficult,” said Ganesh.

Both universities and music conservatories required Ganesh to submit vocal performance tapes—referred to as “pre-screens”—through an online portal in early December, rendering the Common App application the first of many steps. By mid-January, applicants receive notice if they are still in contention for admission.

“A lot of people are cut from the pre-screen to the audition,” Ganesh noted. To lighten the pressure, Ganesh prepared a repertoire of six songs to be reused throughout the process and across programs; she practiced these songs up to three times a week in November and December.

Seeking advice outside of AHS has helped Ganesh to navigate auditions that few people have experience with, especially when stratified down into niche topics such as classical music. “For the audition process, my voice teacher has been so helpful to me because she also majored in vocal performance and music education,” Ganesh said. “She knows how it is.”

Senior Alex You recently finished an audition season parallel to that of Ganesh intending to major in classical saxophone to become a music instructor. To accommodate his interdisciplinary interests in computer science, You focused his applications toward music departments within traditional universities rather than music conservatories. Nonetheless, the four universities he applied to required him to develop a repertoire of various études, arpeggios, and scales that he performs at auditions in front of faculty panels.

You believed that the support AHS provides for prospective music students is adequate given their small numbers. He noted, “My counselor helped me somewhat because she has been here a lot longer than I have, so she has seen some students apply to music.” Parallel to Ganesh’s experiences, You found value in private, one-on-one lessons.  “Actually having a private lesson instructor is so honestly vital if you want to become a musician as a hobby or as a major.”

While practice occasionally came in the way of academics, You believes “you can strike a balance.” He only missed three days of school for college auditions.

In reference to the music department faculty, Ganesh explained, “Dr. Peithman, Mr. Kuchan, and Dr. Voigt—they’re all so helpful with answering any questions you could ask about the process. But beyond that, it’s a little difficult. When I ask guidance counselors or even non-musical teachers, none of them have ever experienced it.” Musical auditions count as excused absences, as with any college visit. In such situations, Ganesh stressed the importance of communicating with teachers to ensure she did not fall behind in class.

Since joining AHS midway last year, Lauren Peithmann now teaches Music Production, Beginners’ Piano, and Guitar, and directs two of AHS’ three choral groups. Peithman notes that the “handful” of students participating in the college audition season may need to take a backseat in after-school rehearsals for show choir, taking notes rather than actively participating to allow for vocal rest.

“I would say that participation in all of our music classes is definitely a bonus for those looking to major in music,” said Peithmann. “We teach foundational skills, we reinforce those skills.” Indeed, both Ganesh and You have been involved in ensembles like From Start to Finish to the Jazz Quartet, respectively. For You, it was his involvement in the band programs that spurred his interest in music education.

Even so, Peithmann reiterated, “Auditioning for music school is a really intense process… and it’s really an individual process.” She, too, recommends that students seek out private tutors outside of school who can fully invest in their personal growth. In a group setting, musical teachers do not always have the resources to individually guide each student towards their ideal career path.

Ganesh added, “I would say really just the earlier you can start the better.”

Peithman advises prospective music majors to “make sure that they’re taking care of themselves because it’s long, but it’s really rewarding and you’ll learn a lot.”

“I have known that I wanted to do it since around the beginning of junior year and it still sometimes confuses me. And confuses my voice teacher. Even on like keeping track of all the dates and what you have to submit. And especially because teachers here may not know, I would say just do as much of your own outside research as you physically can,” said Ganesh.

Ganesh reiterated, “This process is very draining…but it is very rewarding.”