Title: AHS Setting for 8th-Grade Career Fair
Author: Isabella Yan, Saarvi Deshwal, Tommy Kruecker-Green
Position: Arts Editor, Staff Writer, Opinion Editor
Category: Articles
Date: APR 29, 2025
Tags: education, learning, news, STEM, teaching
Description: Andover High School hosted a My Career Academic Plan Fair MyCAP on April 15 for eighth-graders to explore career options before they enter high school.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/img_4957.jpg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A


Andover High School hosted a My Career Academic Plan Fair (MyCAP) on April 15 for eighth-graders to explore career options before they enter high school.

Eighth-grade students gathered in the Field House at AHS for the first-ever joint Career Day with all APS middle schools, organized through the MyCAP initiative, a Department of Education grant program. AHS collaborated with middle school and high school counselors, a team of educators, and volunteers to plan the career day. Prior to the fair, students were encouraged to do their own research on jobs that they are interested in. During MyCAP, students walked around with “passports” in which they could take notes of their discussions.

The purpose of the fair was to help rising freshmen gain insight into possible professions and career paths before they enter high school, so that they have a stronger idea of the courses they would like to take.

“[Students compiled] a list of careers that they’re interested in,” said Aixa de Kelley, Director of Guidance, and event coordinator. “Then they come here and find the careers for which they have questions to ask, and then they get a stamp.”

There were over 50 adult volunteers who shared their experiences from their various professions. Although smaller career days have been hosted at the middle schools in past years, this marked the first year that all three middle schools came together at the high school for a unified event. Volunteers answered questions students had and shared the proper education and experience requirements for their professions.

Timothy Burgess, an electrician and a volunteer at MyCAP, shared, “[I hope to] inspire [students] that it’s not uncommon in a town like Andover to go to a trade school, because I went to West Middle, [and] it felt like there was a big stigma against going to a trade school.”

Another volunteer, Yissy Perez, a civil engineer and founder of construction company YCP Northeast, shared her motivation for sharing her career experience. “I would love to start a conversation early on. When [kids] hear engineering, they might think, well, that’s so difficult. And it is. But when something is fun, when you enjoy it, it’s worth it,” Perez said.

While studying at Tufts University, Perez enrolled in academically challenging courses, discovering her passion for engineering. She wants to share this experience with students and encourage more young women to pursue STEM professions.

“I would love to see more women [pursue STEM]. In my view, especially when I’m working for another company, you don’t see this many women. It would be great,” Perez added.