Title: AHS Double Booked for Homecoming, Voices of Hope
Author: Samantha Sun
Position: Social Media Manager
Category: Articles
Date: NOV 13, 2024
Tags: N/A
Description: Homecoming was held on October 19, 2024, the same date as the AHS show choir’s Voices of Hope event, causing a conflict for students who wanted to attend both.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/img_8209.jpg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A
Display: featured

Homecoming was held on October 19, 2024, the same date as the AHS show choir’s Voices of Hope event, causing a conflict for students who wanted to attend both.

“Our calendar was basically set by… the beginning of June, [before] the Homecoming dance date was set,” said Lauren Peithmann, the show choir director. Peithmann was also confused when the Homecoming date was announced and happened to be the same day as their fundraiser.

Peithman mentioned that there were a handful of show choir students who wanted to attend Homecoming in addition to the Voices of Hope fundraiser. Luckily, the administration reached out and created a way for show choir students to attend Homecoming.

“The plan is for students to come here, do a rehearsal with us, and then go to the dance for a while and then come back and perform,” Peithmann explained before the event. “We hope that it’s a good compromise for families and students who do want to take righting movements in the future.”

Homecoming was held in the foyer and cafeteria while the Voices of Hope event took place in the Collins Center. Date conflicts are common, especially when it comes to scheduling and reserving the school for events, explained Director of Guidance Aixa de Kelley. “The issue is that the reservations for the Collins Center are separate from the reservations when you reserve the school, so it’s two different scheduling companies,” said de Kelley.

Voices of Hope is a nonprofit organization that raises money for cancer research through musical theater and singing. In previous years, the event was held at the North Shore Music Theatre in Beverly, but due to conflicts in the space this year, it was held at the Collins Center.

“A lot of the groups of different ages and different cancer patients come together and do performances like vocal performances, dance performances, or both,” said junior Nabeeha Monjur, a member of the show choir.

“[I] never really attended HoCo, and it was never in the books,” said senior Judy Elkotory who decided to only attend show choir. She has participated in the Voices of Hope fundraiser for the past three years; the event has raised over 1 million dollars, an impressive amount.

Homecoming is usually held the day after a Friday football game, ideally following a team win. When the Homecoming date was reserved, organizers were apparently not aware that Voices of Hope was set for the same day.

“When we found out, we couldn’t move [the date],” said de Kelley. The following Saturday, October 26, was the date of the PSATs and the previous week was Yom Kippur, a Jewish holiday.

Although the planning for this year’s homecoming wasn’t ideally scheduled, in the future, it will be better planned. “Now moving forward, if we would have to reserve the Collins Center, the cafe, the foyer, all the areas at the gym…we would have to reserve everything so that nobody else can schedule an event at the same time,” concluded de Kelley.