Title: AHS Seniors Ready to Vote
Author: Anya Gorovits
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles
Date: NOV 13, 2024
Tags: N/A
Description: AHS seniors who are finally old enough to vote have mixed opinions on the election but are all excited to make a difference.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/unnamed1.jpg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A

AHS seniors who are finally old enough to vote have mixed opinions on the election but are all excited to make a difference.

First-time voters have a lot to think about, especially when many say this election will be the most influential one in a long time. As the youngest voters in the country, high school seniors are vital to the election. Voting-age AHS students differ greatly on how much pressure they feel, how much they know about the election, and their opinions on who should be the next US president.

“I think [voting] is a privilege that all Americans eligible should do, and I’m very excited,” said senior William Connor. Along with other seniors, Connor can’t wait to finally be a part of the voting process.

“I think it’s something that, growing up here you always hear about, especially in the last couple of elections where you are able to follow along but you really want to be a part of it,” said senior Shreya Desai.

Some seniors like Lucas Alvez Peralta and Chloe Todisco expressed being able to vote a strange reminder that they are finally adults. These seniors can’t wait to be a part of a democracy and to have a chance to change the world.

It can be easy to influence high schoolers into thinking a certain way, and this could be dangerous when in the election. While some students say they haven’t felt pressured, some expressed having felt pressured by parents, classmates, and social media. “It’s important to secure your principles in how you feel and who you want to vote for,” said Connor.

Some voters choose to vote for one candidate because they just don’t want to vote for the other. Alvez Peralta explained that he’s seen some information about Harris on TikTok which made him want to vote for Trump. Similarly, Todisco expressed disinterest in voting for  Trump because of things she’s seen and heard about him.

Senior Katherine Wang explained that she feels strongly pressured by her parents in her decision to vote for Trump, but is still excited to have a say in the election.

According to an Oct. 24th NBC survey, around 50% of registered Gen Z voters are voting for Harris and 34% are voting for Trump, but many people are worried whether they are informed enough about the election. Desai has kept up with the news, watched the debates, and is planning on voting for Harris, while Todisco and Alvez Peralta say they don’t have a lot of information on the election but still know who they are voting for.