Title: Andover High’s DECA Transition
Author: Arshiaa Prem
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles
Date: MAR 17, 2025
Tags: education, korea, learning, news, politics, South Korea, teachers, travel
Description: The DECA team changed their district from Boston to Lawrence over the summer.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/img_0143.jpg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A

The DECA team changed their district from Boston to Lawrence over the summer.

The change in districts for DECA has received mixed reactions from both students and teachers. They now go against harder opponents and attend competitions in different locations than in previous years.

“I don’t know how much the district change has benefited, but it also hasn’t had a negative impact,” noted Kari Belson, a junior and three-year member of DECA. Belson said that facing strong teams, like Westford Academy, has encouraged members to work harder and perform better in competitions.

The advisor of DECA, Business teacher Ashley Kinsman said, “The people in charge of DECA made district changes based upon enrollment for each district to make the sizes of each district closer.” She said they want all of the districts to have about the same amount of people competing.

DECA is a program that is designed for high school students who are passionate about business. It is a competition in which students prepare for one of three categories: role-plays and case studies, prepared events, or online simulations. DECA has many categories which include marketing, finance, hospitality, management, entrepreneurship, and personal money skills.

Kinsman believes that the change has had minimal impact on students. “You’re still getting the same level of competition,” she said. She views the change as potentially beneficial for students. District 5 (Lawrence) is slightly smaller than District 4 (Boston), so there’s just slightly less competition.

Since each district decides when they compete, this year’s competition was held a month later than usual, which gave them more time to prepare. The extra time allowed leaders to work individually with more participants and provide guidance that some of the newer members hadn’t gotten the chance to receive before.

Marina Ten, a senior and co-president of DECA, shared her perspective from a leadership role. Her initial reaction to the district change was one of surprise, primarily due to the change in competition location. “The biggest thing about the district change is that you’re going up against schools that you’ve only really seen at states,”  Ten explained. “We were able to hold more meetings and provide more information to the members.”

According to DECA members, the new competition venue at UMass Lowell was nice too, having been described as less confined than previous venues. The new setup, which Ten described as having an “airplane hangar vibe,” provided a refreshing change and more freedom for participants. Ten stated that she was also pleased with the club’s success in the new district, saying that many members placed well in their competitions.