Title: Andover Robotics Club Competes at State Championships
Author: Christina Saad
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles
Date: MAR 17, 2025
Tags: featured, football, news, oscars, Sports
Description: All four Andover Robotics Club teams qualified for the Massachusetts State Championship through awards and wins at recent qualifiers, marking a historic first for the club.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/robotics-2.jpg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A
Display: featured

In past months, each of Andover High School’s Andover Robotics Club (ARC) teams have won or earned an award at their respective qualifiers, securing them a spot in the upcoming FIRST Tech Challenge (FTC) state competition.

There are multiple ways to qualify for states. Teams get in by hosting a qualifier, winning the competition on the field, or winning the Inspire Award, which is given at each qualifier to teams who show excellence both in and beyond their robot. The state competition will consist of winners from every qualifier along with winners of the Inspire Award­­ and hosts, so the games will naturally be more competitive.

“This is the first time ever that we’ve had four teams qualify off of merit alone,” said senior and ARC President Aaryan Deshwal.

In the past, teams have qualified through merit as well by hosting competitions, but this is the first time each team—including the new freshmen team Sandstorm—has qualified only by winning or earning an award at their qualifiers.

The Massachusetts State Championship will be held on March 9 at the Wentworth Institute of Technology in Boston. Each team is adjusting and improving their robot before the competition. They’ll be practicing controlling their robot manually, writing a script to present to the judges, and making changes to their robot’s build and code.

At their qualifier on February 8, ARC Sandstorm won both the Winning Alliance Captain and Control Award. The Winning Alliance Captain Award is given to a team if their chosen alliance—two teams that compete together—wins the qualifier. The Control Award is given to the team with the best autonomous system and sensors in the competition.

“This is absolutely incredible, considering that they’re all rookies. It’s their first year and they won the entire competition, so it was a really proud moment for our entire club,” said Deshwal.

At the same qualifier, ARC Thunder won the Inspire Award. The award acknowledges traits like teamwork and collaboration, as well as outreach in the community.

“It’s an award for a team that is hitting home runs beyond just winning the competitions on the mat,” said ARC advisor Stephen Sanborn.

ARC Hailstorm and ARC Lightning both won the Inspire Award at their qualifiers, as well.