Title: Andover Responds to EEE, Implements Mosquito Control Measures
Author: Harry Guo
Position: Executive Editor
Category: Articles, Community
Date: OCT 07, 2024
Tags: ahs, andover, covid, eee, featured, health, mosquito, nature, school, wildlife
Description: EEE has become more common in the areas near Andover over the past 10 to 15 years.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/eee-photo.jpeg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A
ImageFile 2: https://i0.wp.com/andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/eee-photo.jpeg?resize=2770%2C2078&ssl=1
ImagePlacement 2: Middle Center
ImageCaption 2: Seniors Tyler Buono and Collin Souza doing fieldwork outside for Melanie Cutler’s C Block AP Environmental Science class amidst EEE season.
ImageCredit 2: Harry Guo

EEE has become more common in the areas near Andover over the past 10 to 15 years. The town’s Arbovirus Response Plan, initially created in response to the West Nile virus, is adaptable to EEE and guides their current strategies. Their efforts start every April when they review data from the previous year and develop work plans for mosquito control.

“This year, we saw EEE appear at the end of July in Haverhill and Amesbury, where we usually don’t see it,” said Thomas Carbone, Andover’s Director of Public Health. “We anticipated its spread… and chose to have the mosquito control district treat the brush along athletic fields in August, prior to the start of fall sports.” The early mosquito spraying has so far allowed AHS to maintain its regular schedule of sports practices and games.

In response to EEE, teachers have become more cautious during outdoor activities for their classes. “I make sure that [bug] spray is available to students when we go outside,” said Melanie Cutler, a science teacher and advisor of both the Garden and Environmental clubs. Despite these precautions, she has observed that there hasn’t been a significant shift in student attitudes regarding outdoor activities this school year, contrasting previous years when EEE was more prevalent.

Even though safety against EEE remains a priority, the approach to protecting student-athletes from the disease is largely individualized and not the responsibility of the coaches. “Everybody is aware of what the implications are if this disease is contracted,” said Wayne Puglisi, the Athletic Director for Andover Public Schools. These implications include headache, fever, chills, and vomiting. More severe cases of EEE may progress into disorientation, seizures, encephalitis (brain inflammation), and coma.

According to Carbone, residents should use mosquito repellent, wear long sleeved shirts and pants, and regularly check their yards for standing water to reduce mosquito breeding sites. “Untreated swimming pools are a prime breeding ground,” said Carbone. “As is standing water in roof gutters, children’s pools, bird baths, and abandoned tires.” However, there are no additional school-wide measures beyond general awareness and these personal precautions.

While the impact of EEE has been stifled by preventative measures, climate change continues to drive the increase of tick- and mosquito-borne viruses, according to Cutler. “When we have cold winters and hard frosts… a big percentage of their population tends to die off each year,” she explained. “That helps to keep the mosquito and tick population in check.” However, as climate change raises average winter temperatures, more of these pests survive the season, increasing the risk of virus transmission.

“Bird migrations inform… the 10 year EEE cycle,” said Carbone. “When we get more intense rainstorms and hotter weather, it invites the proliferation of mosquitoes.” Additionally, Andover is also monitoring other exotic mosquito borne illnesses moving northward, such as the Zika virus.