Title: APS Budget Deficit Lowered to 77K
Author: Saarvi Deshwal
Position: Layout Editor
Category: Articles
Date: MAY 01, 2025
Tags: N/A
Description: APS cut its budget gap to $77,845 through retirements and admin cuts.

Andover Public Schools (APS) has successfully narrowed what was originally a $1.87 million budget deficit for the upcoming school year to just $77,845 as of March 31.

The budget deficit is a result of a multitude of factors, such as an increase in transportation or inflation, causing expenses to rise. To account for issues such as inflation, the schools’ budget increases by 3.75 percent annually, which is allocated through the town’s overall budget. Currently, the budget for the 2025 school year is $103,619,046. With the 3.75% increase, the budget for the 2026 year rises by $3,885,714 to $107,504,760.

According to the numbers provided by the Superintendent’s Office, there is estimated to be a 4% increase in the “contractual agreements” with teachers for the next school year, causing an increase of $3,095,590 spent for salaries. Other such contractual agreement salary increases are estimated to be an additional $1,053,606 for a total of $4,149,196. The Athletic and Fine Arts Fees are being increased by 2.5%, an additional $11,494 and $2,353 in costs, respectively.

While some are calling the decreased deficit of 77845 a financial victory, others have concerns about the long-term implications for staffing and the learning experience for students. Throughout the past three months, Superintendent Dr. Magda Parvey shared the revised budget plan, showing cuts made to bring down costs while preserving students’ classroom experience. According to Parvey’s presentation, the budget will still preserve services and programs for students, maintain class size averages, continue prioritizing student support services, and more. The budget proposal Parvey put forth to the School Committee included reductions marked under “Legal Services,” “Reduction of staffing in Office of Finance and Administration,” “Elimination of Administrative positions,” and more.

“There aren’t any reductions of any of our programs [for students]…,” said Parvey. “That’s one of the things that we’re really proud about with this budget—is that we have not had to do any reduction in services or programs.”

The cuts are being made in a way that minimally “impact schools and students and staff,” said Parvey. However, there is still an additional $77,845 budget deficit. Administration believes that natural attrition and retirements will cover the remainder. “We’re going to wait to see who else retires … and what’s important is there’ll be some kind of savings.”

Usually, when a teacher retires at APS, another teacher is hired to replace their position. However, to account for the budget deficits, this will not be happening this year and will instead be dependent on other factors. The district will assess the student enrollment and align staffing as needed.

Matthew Bach, a history teacher and the President of the Andover Education Association, expressed concerns about how the budget deficit is being addressed. “The superintendent is saying that it’s not really a cut because people are retiring and she doesn’t replace them, she’s not actually cutting people. But she is cutting positions,” Bach argued that due to retirees not being backfilled by new teachers, this is “definitely going to affect the quality of education.”

“Some of our retirements absolutely do have to be backfilled or replaced,” said Parvey. “But the ones that we found savings in are the positions at the middle school level in particular.” Parvey shared that class sizes differ due to enrollment rates. “All of our staffing decisions are typically made based on enrollment and enrollment projects… Fewer students can naturally mean fewer adults,” said Parvey.

Enrollment in APS had declined by approximately 11% over the past 10 years, according to Parvey. Due to this, there are fewer students in classes, and thus, the need for teachers has also declined. However, in about another three to five years, there is an expected rebound and an increase in enrollment again.

“In education, you can’t just take a look at a blip on a timeline, you [have] got to consider that you have to have stability over decades,” said Bach. “And so what [Dr. Parvey] is referring is a very narrow space where there’s going to be a drop in enrollment. And mathematically speaking, if you’re taking away positions, that even if it’s somebody who’s retiring, there’s going to be fewer [teachers available].” An effect of that can be larger class sizes, added Bach. This can lead to a decrease in individualized instruction for students and higher workloads for faculty.

Parvey said she has strived to ensure budget cuts do not directly impact the student learning experience. According to the presentation to the School Committee, class sizes will remain within the midrange of the School Committee policy: at or below 25 students per class and, if not feasible, within a range of 21 to 29 students.

For further information, please visit [aps1.net](https://www.aps1.net)’s FY26 [Budget Page](https://www.aps1.net/page/budget-information).