Title: APS Libraries Receive Endowment of $150,000, New Books
Author: Julia Rodenberger
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles, Community, Education
Date: DEC 05, 2023
Tags: AHS Library, books, Endowment, library
Description: The AHS Library will host indigenous author Angeline Boulley for a series of educational events in March of 2024.

The AHS Library will host indigenous author Angeline Boulley for a series of educational events in March of 2024.

This initiative was made possible by the Cummings Foundation based in eastern Massachusetts. As recipients of the 2023 Cummings Grant, APS libraries recieved $150,000 to host Boulley for authorship workshops and to fund other educational endeavors over a three year period.

Boulley belongs to the Chippewa Tribe in Sault Saint Marie, Michigan, and primarily writes fantasy novels rooted in her culture. In preparation for Boulley’s arrival, AHS librarian Mary Coombs encouraged students to read Boulley’s latest release: *The Firekeepers Daughter*. “It’s gotten all kinds of awards, and it’s a pretty action-packed mystery,”  Coombs stated. Interested readers can find the novel on display at the check-out desk in the library.

Boulley’s visit will consist of a presentation in the Collin Center with multiple opportunities for students to speak with her via writing workshops and a luncheon discussion. “I think it’ll be refreshing, new, and hopefully a good learning experience,” said Coombs.

The Cummings Grant coincides with an initiative to update the AHS book collection for Fall of 2023. Increased cultural representation is a common theme in 400 books selected for the library. “The collection and the programming and the space really needs to reflect students,” Coombs added. Currently, the displays highlight indigenous stories for Native American Heritage Month.

Coombs elaborated, “All the [APS] libraries are suffering from the same problem and that their collections are kind of old, a little outdated. We can run a report, we can see how old the average age of some of the books are.” Outdated and inaccurate material was “weeded” out at the end of the 2022-2023 school year to make room for the incoming books.

AHS librarians worked alongside teachers across departments in order to select books that mesh well with academic curricula. Coombs hopes that more teachers will be able to take advantage of the library resources.

Senior Anusheh Hashmi added, “Once my teachers in sophomore grades introduced me to the catalogs and resources, I became a lot more adept at using them more frequently, sometimes even outside of class.”

While classes will benefit from multiple copies of research-based books, individual students may enjoy the increased presence of fiction. “I think reading for pleasure is really, really important,” Coombs said. “So we really beefed up on fantasy, a lot of realistic fiction, a lot of graphic novels, and we just started a manga collection.”

Hashmir stated, “I have found that I can always recognize some of the books on display, as they tend to be on the popular side of social media.”

The AHS Library is open to students before and after school and during H-block with opportunities to come during class with teacher permission. A librarian is always present to assist students who wish to check out or renew books.

Coombs stated, “I definitely have seen an uptick in new people that I haven’t seen in the library before borrowing things. That’s the idea, right? If you build it, they will come.”

Hashmir added, “I think the reason people don’t use the library as often is simply because they don’t know.”