Title: Aspiring Musicians of AHS Travel to NYC
Author: Samantha Sun
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles, Arts, Events
Date: JAN 25, 2024
Tags: band, Chorus, New York City, NYC, orchestra
Description: The AHS chorus, orchestra, and band students will compete in the Heritage Festival in New York City this April, from the 11 to the 14.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/01/screen-shot-2024-01-22-at-5.55.25-pm.png
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A
ImageFile 2: https://i0.wp.com/andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/01/nyctrip1.jpg?resize=4032%2C3024&ssl=1
ImagePlacement 2: Middle Center
ImageCaption 2: AHS band, orchestra, and chorus students practice for the Heritage Festival in New York City.
ImageCredit 2: STAFF PHOTO / Saarvi Deshwal

The AHS chorus, orchestra, and band students will compete in the Heritage Festival in New York City this April, from the 11 to the 14.

The four-day trip includes a grander scale performance and a cultural experience in New York. The New York Heritage Festival is held multiple times a year by WorldStrides, a trustworthy educational travel organization, and allows students to perform at Riverside Church in front of three nationally acclaimed adjudicators.

Each ensemble will have the chance to perform for a fifteen-minute time frame, have a mini-clinic with one of the adjudicators, watch other students perform, and receive a professional recording of their performance.

“We wanted to have an opportunity for our students to travel, compete, learn, and have a lot of fun,” said chorus director Lauren Peithmann. She participated in a similar festival in high school, “[It was] so important to my development as a musician and it inspired me,” Peithmann explained. She is looking forward to sharing this experience with her students.

“It’s a cool thing to play for other people and not just for ourselves,” added band director Jeffery Kuchan. “It’s an important thing [to have] our identity as…the Andover community.” This is notably the first chorus, orchestra, and band field trip, and for a lot of students, this will be their first time performing outside of Andover.

Although the performance isn’t until spring, students are working hard and are confident in their abilities to represent AHS. “I’m going to shred on the bass clarinet!” exclaimed sophomore Tessa Helle, a band student who plays the clarinet. Their performance pieces are still undergoing preparations but they are excited to show off what they’ve been working on by the time April comes around.

Meghna Singh-Joglekar, a sophomore and orchestra student, added her input. “I think I’m most excited to perform and see what the judges are going to say.” With the large amount of time and effort students have been putting into their musical work, they are curious about the judge’s feedback and comments.

Lyric Bartleson, also a sophomore who is a part of the chorus added, “I think it’s just a really good experience to give us something besides a concert, something we can work hard for.” This opportunity helps push students to explore beyond the scope of what school ensembles provide and to watch what other ensembles have prepared.

Their performance and evaluation are top priorities, however, the cultural experience is just as important. On their way to New York, they plan to stop by Connecticut where the orchestra and chorus will visit Yale University in New Haven. The Band plans to visit the Hartt School of Music in West Hartford.

Then, they will get the chance to explore the places New York has to offer, such as Times Square, the 9/11 Memorial Museum, a Broadway show, a New York Philharmonic recital, restaurants, and much more.

To help those in need of financial aid and to overall lower the cost of the trip, Tri-M, the music honor society, collaborated to create a series of fundraisers. They sold butter braids which are sweet pastries, for their first fundraiser. Band, orchestra, and chorus students encouraged other AHS students to order these pastries to contribute to the fundraiser.

During the winter holidays, they held a Little Caesars fundraiser where people could order a pizza kit and order it to their house. In the spring, they plan to hold a mattress fundraiser where they are going to have a big expo for them in the West Middle cafeteria. Then perhaps a few restaurant profit shares where a percentage will go towards the trip.

“I strongly encourage everyone to check us out and support us,” said Kuchan.

The final evening they are in New York, there will be an awards ceremony with WorldStrides where all the high schools will gather. To end the night, they will “go on a cruise around Manhattan with dinner and dancing, a nice way to close up the trip,” concluded Peithmann.