Title: “Can U Do Me a Favor?”: Hacker Pirates AHS Instagrams
Author: Ella Hu
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles, Community, Events, Trending
Date: OCT 04, 2024
Tags: ahs, andover, current events, featured, school, social media, Trending
Description: All hacked accounts are managed by the hacker, who turned accounts into baits for money and places to post art content.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/screenshot-2024-10-02-130449.png
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A
ImageFile 2: https://i0.wp.com/andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/screenshot-2024-10-02-130449.png?resize=627%2C546&ssl=1
ImagePlacement 2: Middle Center
ImageCaption 2: Sophomore Anya Gorovits receives text message from compromised Instagram account asking for a favor.
ImageCredit 2: STAFF PHOTO / Ella Hu

All hacked accounts are managed by the hacker, who turned accounts into baits for money and places to post art content. Many AHS students mentioned receiving DMs on Instagram from hacked accounts asking for $50 or to use their profile picture.

Junior Ana Murray first received a DM from a friend on her Instagram account asking for help, for Murray’s phone number and for her to answer a link sent to her number. Everything happened quickly, and Murray offered her help without suspecting anything. With a hold of Murray’s phone number, the hacker had full access to her information, including access to her passwords and accounts.

“The text sounded normal coming from my friend,” Murray said. “The timing and the tone really sounded like her and something she would say.” Murray followed the hacker’s instructions, which ended up compromising her Instagram account.

Later, she discovered her friend’s Instagram account was hacked, and now her account was too. “After I provided my phone number, I lost access to my account and couldn’t open it,” she said. “The whole thing disappeared, and I started getting weird texts… when I blocked them, I would get another message from a new email or phone number asking for money.”

Principal James D’Andrea was made aware of the hacking phenomenon, which has also been affecting students’ access to their school email accounts. “If students’ Instagram accounts are hacked with their email logged on, they will be locked out of their emails as a protection management,” he said. “A lot of things in the school system are designed to ensure that systems in the school district remain safe from potential cyber-attacks or threats.”

It is difficult for apps to keep up with all the ways hackers can compromise user accounts using unsuspecting messages. However, D’Andrea said, “We know new technologies are developing and evolving so we have to constantly monitor what is happening behind the scenes… it is our priority that beyond academics, students are physically safe… emotionally safe, and ultimately, technologically safe.”