Title: EDITORIAL: New Athletic Director for APS
Author: N/A
Position: N/A
Category: Articles, Editorial, Sports
Date: MAY 23, 2022
Tags: athletics department, Editorial, new faculty, Sports
Description: It has been recently announced that Wayne Puglisi, a longtime physical education teacher at Andover High, will become the new Athletic Director for Andover Public Schools beginning next school year.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/5917430331a49.png
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: COURTESY PHOTO / Eagle Tribune

It has been recently announced that Wayne Puglisi, a longtime physical education teacher at Andover High, will become the new Athletic Director for Andover Public Schools beginning next school year.

Our current Athletic Director, Bill Martin, will long be remembered for his dedication and hard work he has put in during the past five years at AHS, specifically helping keep the athletic department alive and successful as the school faced restrictions during COVID. Martin’s organization and strong encouragement for all teams, whether it be Varsity, JV, or Freshman, girls or boys, has been clear throughout his time at AHS. Martin, alongside Assistant Athletic Director Kerry Cashman, would show up to watch and support as many of our Andover teams as possible, which always made athletes feel driven and appreciated for their hard work.

While this role has big shoes to fill, Puglisi has a great amount of experience to help him get off on the right foot. He has been working as a physical education teacher for the past 24 years at AHS, and has also been a long time coach in not only Andover, but also in Londonderry, N.H., and Winchester, and currently at Timberland Regional High School.

As a physical education teacher, Puglisi, also known by students as Pug, is known for his overall kindness and caring personality During the remote learning period at the beginning of COVID, Puglisi would check up on all of his classes, constantly keeping up with the well-being of each student. Puglisi is also known as being a motivating teacher, pushing students to step outside of their comfort zones to try something new.

The role of Athletic Director is not an easy task to take on, yet Puglisi has consistently embodied important traits that are key to success in the role. Taking on the role of AD includes coordinating all games, teams, coaches, and players, along with enforcing rules and regulations regarding athletic standards and expectations. The AD is also the main contact for any parent, coach, or athlete in a state of conflict, therefore having a strong quantity of patience, empathy, and discipline is important. Puglisi exemplifies these traits, especially including demonstrating outstanding leadership and earning the respect of his athletes, students, and colleagues alike.

Puglisi is extremely involved in our local community, including being the current coordinator of Town Pride Lacrosse League, being the boys lacrosse coach’s representative for the Massachusetts Interscholastic Athletic Association (MIAA), and serving on the board for the Italian National lacrosse program. From 2009 to 2011, Puglisi was the president of the Eastern Mass Lacrosse Coaches Association.

While Puglisi will be missed as a valued physical education teacher, our community is excited to welcome him into his new role and see what the future holds for him.