Title: Germs Gone Viral
Author: Samantha Sun
Position: Social Media Manager
Category: Articles, Community
Date: DEC 13, 2024
Tags: ahs, andover, COVID-19, disease, featured, gross, school, sickness
Description: As the crisp autumn air gives way to the chill of winter, the familiar sounds of sniffles and coughs fill the hallways of Andover High School.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/img_8375.jpg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A

As the crisp autumn air gives way to the chill of winter, the familiar sounds of sniffles and coughs fill the hallways of Andover High School. Inside, classrooms are sprinkled with empty tissue boxes, weary faces, and feverish temperatures.

For many students, this is a yearly struggle: balancing rigorous schoolwork while battling illnesses that leave them drained and struggling to keep up.

Junior Aki French knows the struggle all too well. On a recent chilly Sunday, a dull headache settled in, followed by dizziness. “I noticed my head [started to] hurt [and] I got super cold,” French said. Outside, she bundled up in six layers, trying to fight it off despite the weather. Already, she suspected that the illness might be more serious than the average cold.

The confirmation came swiftly—through a COVID test, she discovered the coronavirus had struck for the second time, the first time being in 2021 over quarantine. French wasn’t surprised; a friend of hers had recently tested positive for COVID. French theorized she caught the virus from her friend. French’s first and second experiences were similar; her days were filled with fevers, headaches, and resting to recover quickly. However this time, the sickness felt more daunting as a junior in high school.

Finally returning after a week of recovery, she found herself with a mountain of work. “I missed three quizzes and two essays because I got COVID,” French said with a sigh. As a hardworking student taking two AP courses, she had to put in extra effort to catch up with the rest of her classmates. This meant staying after school for tutoring from her physics teacher, finishing quizzes during H-Block, and getting through homework as quickly as possible.

“It was very hard to manage… I think I managed it,” French laughed, reflecting upon her efforts to catch up. “But a lot of teachers and my guidance counselor helped me to arrange the schedule of testing and homework.” This was something French gratefully advised all students to do: ask for help from counselors, teachers, and parents.

Health teacher Candice McVeigh expressed a similar opinion. “It’s important to advocate for yourself if you are feeling overwhelmed,” said McVeigh. Oftentimes, getting support helps lessen the stress and burden of getting back into school and making up work.

Cases like French’s are all too common. Students often find themselves buried under work after just a few days away due to illness. Due to less sunshine and being indoors more, it’s easier to contract an illness, McVeigh explained.

“Schedules tend to get busier with the change of seasons,” said school nurse Heidi Katz. “People get run down and self-care is often not high on the priority list.”

The most common illness? The common cold, which prompts the most visits to the nurse’s office. The flu is the second most common contender at AHS.

The flu and common cold are contracted through coughing, sneezing, or touching contaminated surfaces. The best ways to prevent them is by washing your hands thoroughly, getting lots of rest, and drinking enough fluids. There are also annual flu and COVID vaccinations, which can help lower the chances of catching them.

“Everyone is so busy and anxious about missing school, clubs, sports, they don’t allow themselves to fully recover,” said school nurse Melissa Sucharewicz.

While it can be nerve-wracking to miss a lot of school from being sick, if illnesses are not properly treated, they can potentially increase the length and severity of the sickness. It is best to let the body heal on its own before tackling school work, extracurriculars, or sports.

McVeigh observed that a lot of upperclassmen, especially those taking harder classes, often prioritize school work over their health. “First and foremost, I believe—maybe it’s because I’m a health teacher—that you have to take care of yourself to make sure that there is a balance [in your schedule],” she said.

She emphasized that finding a balance includes taking care of homework assignments, having downtime, and taking care of the body properly.

Finding time for each of these factors is the hardest part, as time management is not an easy task. Too much or too little of either of these can create a dysfunctional schedule. While schoolwork is a priority as a student, so is taking care of our health. It’s important for all students at AHS to remember that self-care is equally crucial as keeping up to date with homework and tests.