Title: Global Medical Initiative Club Organizes CPR Clinic
Author: Areeta Faiz
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles
Date: MAY 01, 2025
Tags: N/A
Description: Global Medical Initiative (GMI), a nonprofit organization and club here at Andover High School, is set to host a clinic on May 10th in the AHS library where anyone can get certified to perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).

Global Medical Initiative (GMI), a nonprofit organization and club here at Andover High School, is set to host a clinic on May 10th in the AHS library where anyone can get certified to perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).

According to the American Red Cross, half a million cardiac arrests happen each year, but CPR by a bystander can double or even triple the chance of survival. The GMI clinic would take place at AHS, where students and community members alike will be welcome to learn how to perform this lifesaving technique.

“I think it’s important because in the heat of the moment of a high-stress situation, we tend to freeze if we don’t have that knowledge,” said sophomore Selina Amere and co-president of GMI. The club and organization aim to spread awareness about the field of medicine, providing accessible information to create an impact both locally and globally. “We collectively decided to start this club due to our common interest in medicine and helping our community. We’ve been planning on this clinic for a while now.”

Biology and environmental science teacher Alexis Valenti, who serves as the club’s advisor, agreed: “You never know what’s going to happen. The more people in society who know CPR…the more good Samaritans we have.”

As part of the junior health curriculum, the AHS Health Department partners with the American Heart Association (AHA) to instruct students in CPR as well. Over the course of two weeks, upperclassmen learn how to perform it properly and fulfill the number of hours required by the AHA. “Luckily, we have teachers at AHS who are certified to teach CPR,” said Amere.

“Everybody is required to take a multiple-choice test to ensure they know what to do [and] may get certified in an H block if they’d like,” said Jackie Salvesen, yoga and health teacher at AHS. “Certification is not necessary or required to perform CPR. However, it is nice that you can put it on a job application like babysitting or counseling.”

According to the American Medical Association, only about one in 10 cardiac arrest patients survive. When people experience cardiac arrest, often there is simply no one around who knows how to help them.

Anyone at any age can get certified. In accordance with the organization’s mission to spread medical awareness, Amere said, “[GMI] hopes to get people from other schools involved, too.”

The Red Cross notes that not just healthcare workers and emergency responders can perform CPR. Having more bystanders trained in this simple skill can help save lives.

This isn’t the only impact GMI is making. “During Childhood Cancer Awareness Month we did weekly posts about topics related to cancer,” said Amere. “[We also hosted] a toy drive where we [collected] numerous donations from locals in Andover…and made baskets for children at Lawrence General Hospital.”

“I think it’s a great idea for a club,” said Valenti. “When I’m teaching, there are certain things that a lot of kids don’t know about. They’ve educated members on different medical topics that maybe we don’t get to cover in class.”