Title: Hnat Your Average Athlete: Senior Brian Hnat Leads the Warriors as a Talented Captain
Author: Carissa Dessin
Position: Sports Editor
Category: Articles, Sports
Date: DEC 05, 2023
Tags: featured, football, Sports, varsity, varsity football
Description: Number sixteen on Lovely Field might be insignificant to some, but to coaches, scouts, and fellow players, all that can be seen is natural talent and leadership.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/screen-shot-2023-12-04-at-6.37.29-pm.png
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A
ImageFile 2: https://i0.wp.com/andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/img_7861.jpg?resize=960%2C942&ssl=1
ImagePlacement 2: Middle Left
ImageCaption 2: Brian Hnat leaves defenders grounded with an athletic catch against Saint Johns Prep.
ImageCredit 2: COURTESY PHOTO / Lindsey Reeves

Number sixteen on Lovely Field might be insignificant to some, but to coaches, scouts, and fellow players, all that can be seen is natural talent and leadership. This number 16 is Brian Hnat, a senior at AHS, and one of the captains of the Warriors football team.

The senior describes becoming captain as “definitely something that [he’s] had to get used to.” Luckily, Hnat said, he’s “had very good role models in the past and it’s definitely given [him] a good idea of what’s expected of a captain and what needs to be done.” He was heavily inspired by his predecessors and set out to continue the trend of being an essential piece in this team’s pursuit of excellence. During their season, the Warriors proved to be a force to be reckoned with within the Merrimack Valley League, thanks to the dedication of their coaches and captains.

In difficult circumstances, a team needs a captain to help them keep going. The Warriors definitely had this support during their slow start against Central Catholic during their Homecoming game. “It wasn’t really that they were better than us, it was just that we were struggling in executing our own [skills],” Hnat explained, showing a clear familiarity and understanding of his fellow teammates. Despite the odds being stacked against them, Hnat said the Warriors managed to “rally together and get the ‘W’,” beating their Central Catholic rivals for the second year in a row. Leadership and motivation make or break a game, but in this case, they made it and led to a satisfying 22-20 victory.

Hnat discovered his love for football in the fourth grade when he started playing in the Andover Junior Football League (AJFL). He said that the sport “impacted [him] in huge ways” by creating many long-lasting friendships and connections. Some of these have even allowed him to use football to connect with colleges, an opportunity that he described as “huge for him.” The journey that Hnat will continue to take in pursuing his passion promises to be an inspiring and successful one.

While his stats prove him to be a great athlete, it is also his behavior off the field that makes him an exemplary person and student. “He comes to practice early and leaves late,” said Coach EJ Perry. Perry continued to compliment Hnat, saying he is “a role model to the freshman and sophomore players.” Hnat, with the help of his fellow captains, Brian McSweeney and Ryan Zannoni, leads and organizes many community service projects for the team to participate in, truly embodying the attributes of a well-rounded leader on and off the field.

The childhood that Hnat had was shared with many other football-loving kids, which included loving the Patriots and believing Tom Brady “[to be] the GOAT,” as Hnat put it. However, some of his favorite memories as a kid were “watching little EJ Perry playing quarterback against St. Johns.” Little EJ Perry is son of Coach EJ Perry, Ernest Joseph Perry IV, who is currently a free agent quarterback in the NFL. Hnat remembers always “watching him play and [him] being a huge role model.” Clearly, based on his performance, Hnat’s goals and aspirations should not be too hard to achieve.