Title: SATIRE: Horror Film To Be Filmed In AHS Dirt Room
Author: Tommy Kruecker-Green
Position: Opinion Editor
Category: Articles
Date: MAY 01, 2025
Tags: satire, humor
Description: Horror director Robert Eggers will use Andover High School as the primary location for his new horror movie, The Buried One.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/hi.jpeg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A

Horror director Robert Eggers (*The Witch, The Lighthouse, Nosferatu*) has selected Andover High School as the primary filming location for his upcoming horror film, *The Buried One*.

The film will center around a group of detention-bound teenagers who discover that the school’s infamous “Dirt Room” holds more than just scattered desks, old junk, and dead mice.

“When our location scouts first told me about a high school with an actual room full of dirt, cement pillars, dead mice, and student names etched on the walls, with a whole lore behind it, I thought they were pitching me a movie concept and not a real location,” said Eggers in a press release. “This kind of authentic creepiness can’t be recreated on a studio lot.”

Eggers is well known for his authentic sets and obsessive attention to detail. His latest movie, *Nosferatu* (2024), a remake of the original 1922 silent film, was nominated for four Oscars, including production design.

Although details are relatively sparse, production notes suggest the film’s plot features the urban legends of AHS’s Dirt Room coming horrifyingly to life when students ignore the administration’s warnings to stay away from the “unexcavated space.”

The AHS administration, initially hesitant about the project, eventually agreed after the production company offered to renovate the school’s aging science labs. However, not everybody is on board with the specific modernization recommendations. The proposed scratch-and-sniff periodic tables were met with particular skepticism from some faculty members.

AHS students are invited to audition for zombie extras. Juniors and seniors taking four or more AP classes are particularly encouraged to sign up for auditions. 

“Given how *The Buried One* is sure to become a really big part of AHS’ history and culture, I thought it would only be right to have real AHS students featured in the movie,” Eggers said. “Even better if they look like zombies.”

Production begins during spring break to minimize disruption to classes, though the film crew has requested that staff already collect any rats or mice (dead or alive) found in the vicinity for “authenticity purposes.”

Egger’s project has been met with varying degrees of enthusiasm. Animal rights activist, Stella Crumbworthy, has expressed concern about the working conditions of rodents. “I think this is a real infringement on their rights as institutional rodents. Are they unionized? No! Who knows what kind of working conditions they’ll be subjected to!”

An anonymous parent also expressed frustration. “I did not pay $300 in SAT tutoring for my kid to spend the majority of April break with these film people. What is this time commitment? Especially since he’s ‘Decomposing Corpse #3’”.

Eggers has a history of working with rodents. In *Nosferatu*, 5,000 live rats were used on set, 2,000 of which were trained to run on cue. Despite Eggers’ past grievances about their incontinence, he plans to once again cast a dedicated rodent ensemble in his upcoming film, albeit with a new disclaimer in set guidelines stating all cast and crew be “comfortable working with light-to-moderate miasma”. *The Buried One* is scheduled for release on Halloween 2026, with a special premiere planned at the Collins Center.