Title: Lights, Camera, Andover!
Author: Kaveri Dole, Arshiaa Prem
Position: Staff Writers
Category: Articles, Community
Date: DEC 13, 2024
Tags: ahs, andover, celebrity, featured, movie, school
Description: In the sleepy town of Andover, where the pace of life is typically slow and uneventful, a recent event caused waves of excitement: the visit of international superstar Zendaya.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/zendaya.png
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A

In the sleepy town of Andover, where the pace of life is typically slow and uneventful, a recent event caused waves of excitement: the visit of international superstar Zendaya. The acclaimed actress, known for her roles in *Spider-Man: No Way Home*, *Dune*, and the hit series *Euphoria*, made a surprise appearance at Phillips Academy as part of a film called *The Drama* being produced by A24, the independent film company behind titles like*Everything Everywhere All at Once*and*The Iron Claw*. This visit left students and faculty in awe and highlighted Andover’s growing role in the film industry.

For many in Andover, the news of Zendaya’s presence was surreal. For AHS sophomore Pamela Chamnankit, the excitement began when she received a text from her sister in the middle of math class. What followed was a flurry of delirium as rumors spread like wildfire. By the end of the school day, it seemed that the majority of the student body at AHS was abuzz with anticipation. “It was so unexpected,” Chamnankit recalled. “People started talking about it, and by the time the day ended, I had to see her for myself.”

As soon as school let out, she and her sister dashed off to the Addison Gallery of American Art at Phillips Academy where the filming took place. After what seemed like a decade, but in reality, it was just over an hour, the moment had arrived. “I saw her walk out that door and I was like, ‘Oh my God, that’s actually Zendaya’,” Chamnankit said. “Nothing really happens here, it’s boring,” she added, in shock that Andover attracted such big celebrities. “I was so happy I was about to cry, I was shaking and was so nervous,” she said, remembering how she was screaming with the crowd.

The emotional reactions of students who witnessed Zendaya’s visit did vary. Phillips Academy freshman Kaylee Xie, who rearranged her class schedule to catch a glimpse of the star, described her experience as somewhat underwhelming. “It was kind of difficult to see because people were pushing, but it was still fun,” she said.

While she admitted that the experience didn’t meet her expectations, Xie acknowledged the importance of being part of something so unique. “It was worth it because I actually got to see her. If I hadn’t, it wouldn’t have been worth waiting all that time.”

She also said, “Some teachers changed their class plans so either their class could go see Zendaya or their class plan had to do with Zendaya.” It may be surprising that even teachers would disrupt their class for this, but Xie said, “Teachers had to do something about it because the students were getting too excited.”

For AHS senior Dhwani Nair, Zendaya’s visit was a reminder of the power of pursuing one’s dreams. Growing up watching Zendaya on television, Nair expressed her excitement and awe upon seeing her in person. “It’s cool to see someone I always saw on TV in real life,” she said. “It reminds me of my goal to be a director and pursue a career in film.”

Nair shared Chamnankit’s shock at the fact that such a big celebrity was coming to Andover; however, she was more shocked that the Addison Art Gallery was so well known. Contrary to Chamnankit’s opinion, she believes that “Andover has a lot to offer when it comes to filming for movies, [the town has] a diverse range of places to film.”

Phillips Academy is no stranger to the spotlight. The prestigious school has long been a sought-after location for filming, with its scenic beauty and historic campus providing the perfect backdrop for Hollywood productions.  The 2010 film *The Social Network* with Andrew Garfield, which recounted the founding of Facebook, shot scenes on campus, as did *The Invention of Lying* (2009). *Madame Web*(2024), starring Sydney Sweeny and Dakota Johnson, was also filmed in Andover.

Tracy Sweet, the head of communications at Phillips Academy, said Zendaya’s visit to PA displays a growing trend: Andover’s increasing importance as a filming location.

Sweet confirmed that A24’s scouting team contacted the school as early as last summer to discuss filming possibilities. The students and faculty were excited about the filming process but also embraced the opportunity to witness a live production in action. “There was a lot of excitement on campus,” Sweet recalled, “and when the crew returned for a final day of filming, they made sure to have designated areas for students to gather and watch.”

While filming on the PA campus doesn’t generate revenue for the school, Sweet noted that the film company covered all associated costs. The experience, she explained, brings positive energy and visibility to the academy and the town.

Zendaya’s visit may have been a once-in-a-lifetime event for many, but it marks the beginning of Andover’s role in the larger film community. For the students and residents who witnessed her visit, it was a reminder that even the quietest of towns can hold big surprises and opportunities for those looking to make their mark in the world of film.