Title: Massachusetts Community Speaks at AEA Rally
Author: Angela Mac
Position: Co-Editor-in-Chief
Category: Articles, Arts, Community, Education, Events, Faculty, Trending
Date: NOV 12, 2023
Tags: AEA, Andover Education Association, strike
Description: During the November 10 AEA demonstration, members of the Andover community all over Massachusetts came together at the Town Commons.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/screen-shot-2023-11-12-at-2.27.44-pm.png
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A
ImageFile 2: https://i0.wp.com/andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/img_5233.jpg?resize=4608%2C3072&ssl=1
ImagePlacement 2: Middle Center
ImageCaption 2: Matthew Bach makes a speech at the strikeout.
ImageCredit 2: STAFF PHOTO / Julia Rodenberger
ImageFile 3: https://i0.wp.com/andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/img_5255.jpg?resize=4608%2C3072&ssl=1
ImagePlacement 3: Middle Center
ImageCaption 3: Erica Uyterhoeven makes a speech at the strikeout.
ImageCredit 3: STAFF PHOTO / Julia Rodenberger

During the November 10 AEA demonstration, members of the Andover community all over Massachusetts came together at the Town Commons. They shared sentiments regarding the Andover School Committee’s offers and refusals to meet the AEA’s demands.

Brian Shea, AHS English Teacher, opened the stage by defining what Andover Public Schools (APS) truly is, saying that APS is not merely a set of numbers to be analyzed but a thriving community based on love, care, and compassion. Although school is closed, Shea wanted “to be clear that APS is not closed today because APS is right here!”

Kathryn Conti, Woodhill Middle School (WHMS) eighth-grade special education teacher of 20 years and army veteran thanked the rally: “Your personal life and commitment to the common good are an inspiration to students and teachers alike.”

Daniel Donnavon, AHS Science Teacher and **marine veteran**, declared, “Service is something we model every day in our teaching. We have to stand up for ourselves and model that for our students.”

Matthew Bach, AEA President and AHS History Teacher, shared his eagerness to get back to the classroom but said that [the AEA] “is doing this because it is the right thing to do, and if [they] didn’t do it [he] wouldn’t be able to…look [his] students in the eye. There is a time when what’s just and what’s right has to overcome fear and a reluctance to get out of our individualism. And [the AEA is] here collectively to do that today. And we’re going to win.”

Julian Digloria, AEA Vice President and WHMS History Teacher, reflected on his personal and familial connection to the town as an educator and how important public education is. “It’s something that people do not have across the globe and in some cases in this country and…. something that our armed forces are fighting to protect,” he said. Andover “has been a lighthouse district for public education,” he continued, “[and] we want to keep it that way.” Digloria urged the School Committee to work with the AEA, to offer them a fair contract, and to respect their employees in order to keep Andover a lighthouse district in the commonwealth and in the nation.

Karen Torres, Instructional Assistant Unit Chair, reminded all instructional assistants of their value to the district and how critical their work is for the success of their students. Torres emphasized how the school committee “can’t fill instructional assistant positions that are posted and open, because it’s a difficult, low paying job, and now the district values [instructional assistants] so much that they’re willing to pay an outside company $65 an hour to fill that position.” Torres ended her speech by demanding that the school committee “Do [their] job!”

Chrissy Lynch, Massachusetts AFL-CIO (American Federation of Labor–Congress of Industrial Organizations) President, explained her role and reason for joining the AEA strike: “The job of the AFL-CIO is when one union gets picked on you got a whole bunch of other ones standing in solidarity.” The AFL-CIO represents over 800 local unions across Massachusetts from every sector. Lynch said “Our educators deserve everything that our cities and our state can give them. This is the future of our world.” Although Massachusetts passed the Fair Share Amendment, expected to generate about $2 billion in yearly support for transportation and public education, Lynch said, “Now is the time to use those investments to make sure our schools are getting the resources they need.”

Kara Routier, AHS Instructional Assistant, shared how difficult it is to pursue a career in education because the “starting wage for IAs here is not adequate to pay for housing, food, any student loans, transportation, clothing, and routine bills.” Routier expressed her concern for Andover’s diminishing appeal to young educators, lack of recognition for experienced educators, and the School Committee’s disregard for students, particularly those with special needs.

Dayshawn Simmons, Somerville Educators Union (SEU) President, expressed solidarity with AEA, highlighting their shared struggle for fair wages and conditions. Drawing from Somerville’s experience, he encouraged the AEA to trust in their collective power, emphasizing that their fight will only yield positive changes for educators but will also inspire and empower students: “You all made the brave, courageous, and righteous decision to advocate for yourself, your students, and the Andover community,” said Simmons, “remember what you are fighting for and know that you deserve it.”

Erica Uyterhoeven, Somerville State Representative, shared her personal connection to labor struggles through her mother’s union. “My first picket line was in the womb,” said Uyterhoeven. She encouraged educators to remember their courage during challenging times and dispelled myths related to funding, the misconception that “Somehow because [teachers] care [about the students], [they] should be paid less,” and the belief that public sector unions are different. She emphasized the right to strike is crucial for negotiation for a fair contract, and she has proposed a bill advocating for the restoration of the right to strike for public sector workers, expressing strong support for the educator’s actions in Andover.

Maura McCurdy Santiago, Andover Parent, read a letter she sent to the School Committee and the Superintendent. She expressed deep disappointment with the School Committee for the prolonged negotiations and lack of urgency in addressing teachers’ concerns. Santiago highlighted teacher’s efforts during the pandemic and argued for a fair wage that considers the cost of living and matches neighboring communities. She asked the School Committee to consider if they “make a good enough living wage to support [their] own family if [they] had to take an unpaid leave to support a sick loved one?”

Students from the AHS Respect Our Teachers Organization, stepped up and shared their personal experiences with the Andover education system. Mitran Kumar, an AHS junior, highlighted the historical significance of the Bread and Roses movements and drew parallels to the ongoing struggle for a fair contract for teachers in Andover. Mitran said, “This is said to be the land of the free and the home of the brave. But I ask you this: when you don’t have the fundamental right to strike, do you feel free? When you don’t have any meaningful impact or input over your curriculum, do you feel free? When you can’t take time off of work for the death of a family member, do you feel free? But I also ask you this together as we stand here in solidarity, just how powerful we are together. Do you feel brave?”

President Michael Zilles, President of the Newton Teachers Association (NTA), stated that the NTA is working with the same law firm, using similar tactics to resist contracts. Ziles said, “They think they can beat us, but they can’t. I’m coming away from here feeling stronger because what [the AEA] is doing here is going to help 2000 members in Newton and we are going to win just as [the AEA is] going to win.”
Max Page, Massachusetts Teachers Association (MTA) President and Deb McCarthy, MTA Vice President addressed the crowd in solidarity and expressed admiration for the union members fighting for living wages, paid parental leave, and adequate recess time. Page said, “You are not going to be getting this by asking. You are doing this by demanding a fair contract for all your members and for the students in this district… The fight for racial gender, education, and justice, runs through the AEA and runs right through Andover, so you do this for yourselves and your students, but you do this for a larger labor movement that is on the rise.”