Title: Mental Health at AHS: A Growing Focus, but More Could Be Done
Author: Abby Chachus
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles, Opinion
Date: MAY 01, 2025
Tags: N/A
Description: As a student at Andover High School who has encountered and experienced a fair share of mental health struggles, I see the progress that AHS is making when it comes to supporting and understanding students like me.

As a student at Andover High School who has encountered and experienced a fair share of mental health struggles, I see the progress that AHS is making when it comes to supporting and understanding students like me. Students and staff are trying to make a difference related to the social-emotional well-being of students at AHS. Whether through the Yellow Tulip Project or the social emotional training that staff are going through, each action makes a difference. At school, mental health is often overlooked or even stigmatized.

“We live in a very fast-paced society, particularly here in New England, where… most kids are aiming for college, and that brings a lot of pressure,” guidance counselor William Hutchins said. With college preparation, extracurricular activities, and the quest for academic excellence, the weight of expectations on students can feel immense, and many struggle with stress that can be tough to manage. “[As] a whole, we need to do a better job,” Hutchins said, and I agree, in the sense that it’s not just about grades—students are also competing for their futures.

Supporting student well-being depends heavily on the care that AHS staff members provide. I find this to be true—when I feel supported and cared for, I am more likely to be engaged in my learning and participate in class.  “Teachers at AHS are being trained in ‘RULER,’ a nationwide social-emotional curriculum designed to equip staff with tools to help students better handle their emotions,” Hutchins said. ‘RULER’ training is currently being implemented at the middle schools and will soon become integrated at AHS.  While this program may sound promising, its true impact will rely on how effectively it is used by students, staff, and the wider school community.

Despite the introduction of this new training, an obstacle still stands in the way of a strong teacher-student connection—many students often feel bad about reaching out for help.

“Typically, teachers do care about their students and ask how they’re doing, and we have several guidance counselors,” sophomore Hannah Lang said. “However, I think we need to create a space where students feel more at ease approaching their guidance counselors because many are hesitant.”

Despite available resources, many still deal with the stigma that surrounds mental health issues, making it difficult for them to seek assistance when needed. Sophomore and Yellow Tulip Project member Savannah Ross believes this stigma must be confronted more directly. “I believe AHS offers a lot of resources for students facing mental health challenges,” she said. “[But] we need to address mental health more openly, as the stigma around it still looms.”

It’s evident that while resources are in place, the school’s attitude toward mental health needs to be better for students to feel truly supported. I believe Ross is right—we need people to feel comfortable asking for help if we expect our school to give them the support they need. We can’t go into it with the attitude that previously nothing has been achieved in terms of mental health, so nothing will be in the future. Ultimately AHS needs to take the past out of the equation and think about what could be done in the present and future.

Ross also proposed a thoughtful idea: “We could have speakers come in to educate and raise awareness about mental health. Also, we could have student leaders who could speak out and be recognized as go-to individuals for help,” Ross suggested.

This could bring awareness to the topic, like Ross suggested, but we also have adults like guidance counselors and social workers at AHS to bring awareness and help students whenever they need it for whatever reason.

Jayne Jones, another guidance counselor at AHS, talked about the commitment counselors have towards supporting students, not only academically but also socially and emotionally. “When students come to us as counselors, we collaborate with them to understand what’s happening, whether it’s academic, social, or something else,” she explained. However, as a mandated reporter, Jones also recognizes the importance of teamwork in managing more serious issues, which may involve reaching out to assistant principals, social workers, and families when necessary. This should not scare students away from asking for help; in the long run, all these amazing adults and student leaders want to do is help people feel comfortable in school. Whether the issue is inside of school or not, don’t be afraid to reach out because sometimes external issues can still affect students in school.

Addressing mental health issues while we, as students, are still in school can lead to better long-term outcomes for students, including improved social skills and overall well-being. As someone who has experienced mental health issues, I find this to be true because I have become more socially comfortable as my anxiety in school has lessened.

I believe AHS is on the right path, but the conversation around mental health is far from over. For the efforts to reach their full potential, the work of “smashing the stigma,” building trust, and creating a supportive environment must continue. As Hutchins said, “We need to do a better job.”