Title: FAREWELL COLUMN: Moving Too Fast
Author: Shravya Sathi
Position: Co-Editor-in-Chief
Category: Articles, Community
Date: MAY 23, 2022
Tags: college, farewell column, Graduation, Opinion, seniors
Description: A reflection on four years that felt like both an eternity and an instant.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/img-7206-1.jpeg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A
ImageFile 2: https://i0.wp.com/andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/img-7206-1.jpeg?resize=828%2C443&ssl=1
ImagePlacement 2: Middle Center
ImageCaption 2: Seniors walk down the path at graduation after getting their diplomas
ImageCredit 2: STAFF PHOTO / Shravya Sathi

When the current seniors started their time at AHS on August 29, 2018, the four years to come — 1,367 days, 32,808 hours, 1,968,480 minutes, 118,108,800 seconds — felt like they would last an eternity. However, by May of 2022, it felt like it went by way too fast.

Coming into AHS from middle school was like going to college. An overwhelming amount of exploration came with this step. I could join any clubs, had an option on what classes I wanted to take, could pick any sport to try out for, and make a bunch of new friends. On top of just living through that, it was the time for a lot of firsts. First time going to a high school sports game (before Triple EEE hit Andover), first time staying after school, first high school dance, first party, and it seemed like a dream. It was the preview season for the next three years.

Sophomore year only got better. While freshman year came with trying new things, sophomore year gave me my first real taste of freedom: my driving permit. Additionally, with everyone turning 16, the fun continued, as sweet-sixteen invitations were traveling around the school. However, that stopped when the news of COVID started being carried around instead. Then, came the fire alarms for a whole week. By the time we finished making bets on who the culprit was, the announcement was delivered: School is canceled for the next two weeks due to COVID. At first it was exciting, the endless facetimes, family walks, disinfecting groceries, and sitting behind the computer with the cameras off because for some reason it was uncomfortable to turn them on. And before you knew it, school was officially over.

Senior year thus far has been a mixture of all the previous years: exploration of freshman year, freedom of sophomore year, and responsibility of junior year. The college process at the beginning of the year was a type of stress I would not wish on my greatest enemy. However, the time between submitting college applications and decisions coming out hardly exists— it goes by so fast. Then, it’s April and it’s time for all the senior events. By the time the AHS Grads Instagram starts rolling with commitments, it really hits that this is goodbye. Soon enough, prom will be over, and it will be senior events week, graduation, senior safari, and our last goodbyes. By May 27, 2022, we’d have gone through our last high school sports game, last time walking through the school doors, last high school dance, last party, and the dream is over.

In the end, it truly goes by faster than you think. The same kids that you went to elementary school with, drew on shaving cream covered desks with, made Valentine’s Day cards with, are all going to be spread apart across the state, country, continent, and some, even the world. Take a moment to enjoy where you are and take it all in because it will be over before you know it.