Title: New A Cappella Group Chromatics Sprouts Opportunity at AHS
Author: Saarvi Deshwal
Position: Layout Editor
Category: Articles
Date: NOV 13, 2024
Tags: N/A
Description: The new AHS all-gender a cappella group, Chromatics, will have its first meeting on November 12, 2024, at 3:15 p.m.

The new AHS all-gender a cappella group, Chromatics, will have its first meeting on November 12, 2024, at 3:15 p.m. The group will meet once a week on Tuesdays after school in the Choir room.

Chromatics is similar to the current show choir opportunities for students, musical ensembles that combine singing with choreographed dance; however, its members will sing without accompanying instruments or background music. Leonardo Diamant, a Wood Hill Middle School (WHMS) music teacher, started the group. Previously, AHS offered an a cappella group for students, but it had fizzled out after COVID-19. Like many activities, the a cappella group was deeply impacted by the social distancing and COVID regulations, inspiring him to create the Chromatics to “bring back a cappella in all its glory,” said Diamant. He also plans to start an after-school rock or pop band for middle school students at WHMS.

The group is open to all students regardless of their singing ability or skill level and will be offered as a no-cut extracurricular. Diamant said he hopes Chromatics will be a place where everyone, whether they’re seasoned singers or just starting, can participate and grow.

“On the posters, it says ‘Shower singers welcome,’” commented Diamant. “That means if you’re someone who’s never been in a choir before, whether in school or outside, but you just like to sing, you should try it out!”

Chromatics plans to be a non-committal group at the beginning of its presence here at AHS; students may attend as their schedule allows.

“As of right now, we’re just trying to get some kids together and get the group going, and then see where we go from there,” said Diamant.

In addition to weekly meetings, Chromatics already has some plans for their first performances. The group hopes to eventually sing for seniors at the Robb Center, as well as for peers at AHS. These performances will aim to introduce more people to a cappella while showcasing the group’s talents.

Diamant hopes Chromatics will bring together a new community of students at AHS’s musical department.

“I think community is a big part of a cappella,” Diamant said. “It was always huge for me when I was in high school. So I feel like it would be a cool thing to have here, and I want other kids at high school to have the same experience with it … It’s definitely a bonding experience.”

Students expressed excitement for this new offering. “I’m glad to see that there’s a group for people that like a cappella,” said sophomore Aarush Chauhan, a member of AHS’s show choir. “It’s a great opportunity for students to try something new, and I think everybody should just go and try it out if they’re interested.”