Title: New Origami Club Inspires Fun Folding with Friends
Author: Maddox To
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles
Date: MAY 06, 2025
Tags: education, news
Description: This year, Origami Club was created among various other new clubs at Andover High School.

This year, Origami Club was created among various other new clubs at Andover High School. Founded by sophomore Aarush Chauhan, the club is steadily gaining popularity among students across all grades, currently sitting at 22 members.

The Origami Club aims to give members a relaxing experience. Chauhan wants to expose students to the calming and meditative aspect of origami, as well as its ability to allow creative expression.

“The environment is really carefree,” said Chauhan. “We talk, there’s music, [and] sometimes we bring lollipops.”

During meetings, students learn different folding techniques and how to craft various origami pieces. The club meets in room 272, but neither weekly nor monthly, as the schedule depends on teacher faculty meetings. Advised by History teacher Kathryn Vives, the origami club works around teacher faculty meetings, which land on most Wednesdays. You can find a list of scheduled club meetings, posted by Chauhan, on the club’s Schoology page.

The club’s leadership also looks forward to collaborating with other organizations and clubs. In late December, the club partnered with Global Medical Initiative (GMI), another club at AHS; Chauhan hosted multiple meetings where students made origami to donate as Christmas presents. Junior Eva Nguyen participated in these meetings as a member of the Origami Club. Nguyen stated, “We always had Aarush to help us with tweaks…. And I really liked the donation aspect [as well].”

The club is open to all students, no matter their experience level in origami. After attending her first meeting, Nguyen shared that she felt more confident in her origami skills. Junior and Origami Club member Kai O’Sullivan shared, “I’ve definitely been able to work up in difficulty and try different folds and techniques. [Origami has] been easier ever since.”

Another club member, sophomore Anna McDuffee said, “When I started, I was really terrible at creasing. [But] I’ve gotten better. I think it’s sort of the thing where you keep on building at it…and I’m hoping to be consistently creasing by the end of the year.”

While the main focus of the club is for artistic expression through origami, it also offers students a community to bond. McDuffee shared, “I like learning new things and I also like getting to talk to people that I usually don’t get to talk with, especially those who are in different grades. It’s really interesting to get to hear new news around the school.” O’Sullivan shared the same sentiment: they stated, “I love going to it. It’s also like a nice time just to decompress, talk to people, get to hear all the stories from around the school.”

“Origami is good for you,” stated Chauhan.

“Fun folding with friends,” Nguyen replied, encapsulating the essence of the club.

If you are interested in joining the origami club, you can start by joining their group on Schoology by entering their access code: P9W5-26TC-XXHFC.