Title: New Sophomore APs to Be Introduced in Fall of 2025
Author: Avery Slaughter
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles
Date: MAY 06, 2025
Tags: college, education, news, teaching, writing
Description: Andover High School recently announced two new courses being offered next fall, AP Seminar and AP Government.

Andover High School recently announced two new courses being offered next fall, AP Seminar and AP Government. AP Seminar will take the place of the combined sophomore English and history class.

Both of the new classes are open to sophomores, making them some of the first APs for underclassmen. AP Government will be open to juniors and seniors as well, whereas AP Seminar is being implemented exclusively for sophomores. It will replace Modern World Studies, which combines the Modern World History and English 10 curricula into one larger joint class. Students and staff alike have expressed confusion as to how AP Seminar will be managed.

Though the name is being used to describe the new collective class, AP Seminar is formally the title of the English class and Modern World Studies is the name of the History class, though the latter is colloquially used to refer to the current combined course as a whole. While AP Seminar will be taken as an Advanced Placement class, students have the choice to take Modern World Studies for an Honors or College Prep credit.

It’s important to note that AP Seminar, which is an English course, is not exactly the same as English 10. Fundamentally rooted in developing research skills, the curriculum follows a slightly different path than its sister English course while still covering similar topics. According to the College Board’s description, “in AP Seminar, you choose real-world or academic topics to investigate. AP Seminar teaches you how to find and use evidence from experts, and how to present the case from your own perspective effectively, both through writing and multimedia presentations.”

“AP Seminar is a course designed to develop students’ skills in research, analysis, and communication,” Sara Sympson, a representative from College Board, said. “It encourages critical thinking and collaboration, preparing students for college-level work. The course can be organized in a variety of ways to best address student interests, state and/or country and district goals and requirements, and local school traditions and culture.”

Despite the new title, AP Seminar will not be changing much when compared to Modern World Studies. Michael McCarthy, advisor of the Social Studies program in Andover Public Schools, explained that the class will remain nearly identical to its predecessor. Stacy Giggie, program advisor for the English program for grades 6-12, agreed. There will be little change in the overall curriculum, but some of the learning material and assessments will be altered to match the newfound AP-level difficulty of the class.

Modern World Studies and AP Seminar cover important and sensitive topics, and it’s important to ensure they are both prioritized equally. When asked if he was concerned about one subject being emphasized over the other, McCarthy said, “Yes, a little bit, but I’m very confident that the teacher who is teaching it will ensure that the skills we value will be taught.”

AP Government will be offered as a full-year elective like many other APs at AHS. Given the importance of understanding the government as an American citizen, McCarthy suggested that it would be a valuable addition to the course offerings for students.

“We want students to be active citizens, to understand the local government, their state government, their federal government, and to see the government as agents of change,” McCarthy said.