Title: OPINION: Russian Invasion of Ukraine Affects AHS Students
Author: Harry Guo
Position: Guest Columnist
Category: Articles, Community, Opinion
Date: APR 07, 2022
Tags: ahs, Opinion, politics, Ukraine invasion
Description: In a nation full of loud voices, it’s easy to overlook the quieter ones.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/140203083520-map-ukraine-1024x576-1-1.png
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A

In a nation full of loud voices, it’s easy to overlook the quieter ones. Even though people pound their fists and scream on television about the war and how teenagers only care about social media and TikTok, that’s not the case for all of us. My friends and I have discussed and debated Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, so it’s frustrating when our worries are misunderstood and discarded. In addition, with the easy access to phones and internet, we get an inside look at what’s going on in Ukraine right at our fingertips. This accessibility also comes with a lot of stress. School shootings, the COVID-19 pandemic, and now this invasion – we’ve got a lot to take in.

Many teachers have offered a safe space for students to talk about the war in Ukraine, especially when some students have families in the conflict zone. This led to healthy discussions and explanations of why we need to understand and engage with other parts of the world. One teacher says that many students have the same feelings now as the teachers did when they were in high school during the Cold War. Other teachers try to show Russia’s side of the story, but my friends and I can’t justify the images we are seeing in Ukraine. To make this whole situation even more complicated, teachers have to help students navigate through misinformation. One question that keeps popping up in classrooms is this: Am I going to get drafted into the war? Many teachers thought that these students, who live thousands of miles away from the conflict, were joking. Misinformation aside, many people said that teachers shouldn’t veer off too much from the curriculum.

However, the current invasion isn’t as far off from the history curriculum as people think. Talking about this invasion opened my eyes to the similarities between the Middle Ages and Renaissance, which is something we’ve been learning. During the ninth century, Russia grew out of a blending of Slavic and Byzantine cultures. They also adopted Eastern Orthodox traditions, which separated them from the West, leading to a difference in culture that still exists today. From my teachers, I’ve learned that the invasion of Ukraine is nothing new and that history will continue to repeat itself. I believe that it’s important for students to understand the consequences of war and the parallels of today’s events with World War II and the Cold War.

Outside of the classroom, there has been an array of opinions on the topic. Some students have been team Putin, while others think they’re absolutely crazy. When the argument happens face-to-face during lunch, things can get vehement, but it never gets to the point where two people never talk to each other again. Once that bell rings for the end of lunch, everyone forgets everything and heads back to class as if nothing happened. This is a different story compared to last year as I spent all of it remote. When everything is online, it’s difficult to get to know others. Slow Wi-Fi speeds, crunchy mics, and awkward lags also don’t help. All of this combined is especially worse while discussing a sensitive topic. One message can spark a fiery debate among a whole group.

Overall, there’s a mixture of fear, anger, confusion, empathy, and helplessness among the student body because of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Some were ashamed that they were praying for this to not happen to their own country instead of praying for the people of Ukraine. Others thought that people were overreacting until they saw the images of the damage done by the Russians. This war has not only affected our high school but everyone all over the world. Let’s hope that the invasion is stopped soon, before this escalates into something worse.