Title: Psychology Club Hosts Mental Health Awareness Fair
Author: Diya Manikandan
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles
Date: JUN 11, 2025
Tags: mental health, psychology club, student wellness, community involvement
Description: Andover High School’s Psychology Club hosted its first fair to promote mental health awareness on April 30.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/IMG_4432.jpg
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A

Andover High School’s Psychology Club hosted its first fair to promote mental health awareness on April 30. The fair involved several clubs and organizations throughout Andover, including the Yellow Tulip Project, the Art Honors Society, Memorial Hall Library, the NAN Project, and Andover Youth Services.

The timing of the event was to preview the month of mental health awareness, May, which, according to the National Alliance on Mental Illness, was initiated in 1949 to “address the need for increased awareness and support for mental health” (National Alliance on Mental Illness).

During the event, students participated in various activities such as making bracelets, folding origami, crocheting, and more. Additionally, other organizations held different stations that students were encouraged to explore, such as Memorial Hall Library’s journaling station and the Art Honors Society’s community doodle, in which participants were invited to contribute to a school-wide piece of art. Another notable aspect was the kindness jar, in which students were prompted to leave small notes of encouragement and gratitude.

With increasing academic and social pressure on students, events like this can help normalize the topic and help those in need feel supported. Eva Nguyen, the co-president of the Psychology Club here at AHS, hopes to “bring awareness to mental health, [while] also having fun with it and opening up the discussion.”

Nguyen shared her experiences of the behind-the-scenes work that went into making this fair a success. The planning process included reaching out to those who wanted to participate, scheduling the classes that were interested in attending, checking that all the groups had what they needed, and budgeting for decorations and supplies.

“Although this is the first year we’ve done it, I’m really happy with how it turned out,” said Nguyen.

Based on the positive responses, the Psychology Club plans to have the fair as an annual event, with additional opportunities for students to learn about ways to cope with mental health struggles and by continuing to involve other school and town organizations.

In addition, Nguyen hopes that this event inspires more students to engage in conversations about mental health year-round, with the beginning of Mental Health Awareness Month as a starting point to this ongoing discussion.

“We should do more community events where we’re all interacting with each other and working for a [good] cause. I think that’s really important, especially [be]cause in high school, it’s really easy to get stressed, and we should be able to talk about that,” she said.