Title: Robotics Team Competes in World Championship
Author: Avery Slaughter
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles
Date: APR 29, 2025
Tags: featured, Sports
Description: The week before April break, 4410 ARC Lightning competed in the FIRST Championship in Houston, Texas.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/lightning.png
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A

The week before April break, 4410 ARC Lightning competed in the FIRST Championship in Houston, Texas. The team ended their season as quarterfinalists in the international competition.

Prior to this FIRST Tech Challenge (FTC) season, none of the four Andover Robotics Club (ARC) teams had qualified for the world competition. The FIRST Championship, hosted annually, brings together teams from all across the globe to compete in one of four divisions. Throughout the three-day event, Lightning performed exceptionally well in the Jemison Division. Along with a personal high score of 427, they concluded multiple matches with scores in the top 0.12% worldwide. Lightning was also awarded the Second Place Control Award for their impressive programming.

“I think the team all feels that worlds has surpassed all our expectations,” sophomore Lightning member Jeremiah Chou said. “We went from not even knowing if we would make it to states, to being a first pick for playoffs at worlds and  finishing with a winning record.”

Every year, fewer than five percent of FTC teams qualify for the FIRST Championship. Given the numerous milestones achieved at the competition, Lightning members expressed well-earned satisfaction and pride in both their performance and general progression as a team.

“I believe that any ranking at worlds would have really been a win for ARC,” Lightning sophomore Rohit Perugupalli said. “We hadn’t been there before […] as we progressed, we did become more and more confident, leading us to gain a very respectable position.”

Despite the hour difference between Andover and Houston, many AHS students were cheering on Lightning over the course of the competition. Several of Lightning’s matches occurred during H-Blocks, lunches, and after school hours, so supporters could watch them compete in real time.

“Seeing [Lightning] in their matches during H-Block was an incredibly proud experience because they’ve come so far,” sophomore Connor McGovern said. As the leader of 24256 ARC Sandstorm, AHS’s rookie team, he witnessed Lightning’s success throughout the year first-hand.

With plans to continue outreach for ARC into the summer, Lightning isn’t stopping with the school year. While the 2024-2025 FTC season concluded with the FIRST Championship, Lightning has no intention of slowing down.

“Now that we know how it feels to be at worlds, we are only going to push for more next year,” Chou said.