Title: Spotify Wrapped, Aesthetics, and the Individuality Complex
Author: Areeta Faiz
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles
Date: DEC 14, 2024
Tags: N/A
Description: For our non-self-loathing readers, Spotify Wrapped is a marketing campaign and arguably the app’s one redeeming trait, which summarizes all that you’ve listened to throughout the year.

For our non-self-loathing readers, Spotify Wrapped is a marketing campaign and arguably the app’s one redeeming trait, which summarizes all that you’ve listened to throughout the year. While the exact date has not been announced yet, it’s set to release anywhere from late November to early December. It presents and analyzes your top artists, genres, and songs from the year, and for many is an exciting time for all the wrong reasons.

“Spotify Wrapped is kinda like this train wreck that everyone watches from afar, and the only thing you can do is hope yours is a little more respectable than your friend’s,” said Elise Bowman, sophomore and avid rock fan.

For some, music is just noise. “It’s not a make or break part of my life at all,” said Ashley Barton, sophomore and self-proclaimed pinnacle of “white girl pop.” “I guess it’s just so the room isn’t silent when I’m doing something.”

Others see it as much more. “I feel like it’s something I couldn’t live without,” said senior Kara Stefani. “I like to think of it as a language, even if I don’t understand the words, and I feel like that’s a really cool thing.”

“Music is good for the inarticulate,” said Bowman. “I think it says a lot about the people and the things we choose to interact with.” Taste is difficult to describe because music is, for a lot of people, an expression of who they are. But while we contain multitudes, often our music does not.

Wrapped isn’t just a recap of listening habits; it’s a reminder of just how easily music can be reduced to labels. Spotify’s algorithm sifts through your year and presents a watered-down narrative of who you are. Is it fun? Of course. Does it really capture the complexity of someone’s taste? Absolutely not.

“I really hate describing my taste, mostly because with the genres I listen to, everyone has the most ridiculously specific microlabels,” said Bowman. While these labels can be entertaining, they also serve to reduce eclectic tastes to digestible “aesthetics.” It’s designed to predict and reinforce our preferences, which is reflected in how we consume music.

The era of gatekeepers and snobby individualists is rampant; simultaneously, the “I listen to whatever is popular” epidemic is very real.

“So many people get insufferable over their taste,” offers Bowman. “It ends up being a passive-aggressive contest for everybody every year. There’s also people who will not stop consuming all new content no matter how bad it is.” Spotify, TikTok, and the increasingly rapid birth and death of microtrends have a relationship that fuels avid conformists and nonconformists alike.

Interestingly, while many are caught up in the aesthetics of their taste, almost nobody cares what the next person is listening to. “It’s not the first question that I’m asking someone or that I really care about,” said Barton. Similarly, Stefani isn’t “really sure what [her] friends listen to” and feels it hasn’t been brought up in discussion as much as one might think it would.

The people who enjoy music the most acknowledge that it really isn’t that deep. Junior Samin Faiz, an avid EDM and House listener, recognizes that most people aren’t fans of his “definitely niche” taste: “I’m not embarrassed. I know a lot of people hate it, but I don’t really care.”

Bowman concurs: “I’m not embarrassed to like the things I like; I just know it’s going to look ridiculous.” She has every unreleased Bo Burnham song saved as a podcast episode, ten hours of Weezer downloaded on her phone, and has listened to an inexplicable amount of the *My Hero Academia*score.

Wrapped also fuels a culture of competition where listeners compare their tastes against both friends and strangers. But this need to feel unique often works against genuine enjoyment. Despite its drawbacks, Spotify Wrapped has undeniable appeal. At the end of the day, it’s about what makes you happy.

“You are not that important,” Bowman said. “Listen to what you want—not because it’s popular and not because it isn’t.”