Title: The Charity Football Game is On
Author: Diya Manikandan
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles, Events, Sports
Date: NOV 13, 2024
Tags: N/A
Description: Formerly known as the “powderpuff” game, the event consists of the usual aspects of a football game but with gender roles reversed.
ImageFile 1: https://andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/screenshot-2024-11-12-193123.png
ImagePlacement 1: Top Center
ImageCaption 1: N/A
ImageCredit 1: N/A

Formerly known as the “powderpuff” game, the event consists of the usual aspects of a football game but with gender roles reversed. The cheerleaders for the night will be senior boys, whereas the players on the field will be girls from the grade. If any non-gender-affirming students wish to participate, they are welcome to join either team, depending on where they feel most comfortable. Traditionally, the football players are trained by the captains of the cheerleaders, and the cheerleaders are trained by the captains of the football team.

Senior Will Dever, one of the football captains said, “[The charity football game is primarily to] raise money, but also to… bring the school community together and just overall have a good time with the senior class, the ones you were never super close with but now you have a chance to connect with.”

The funds received for the charity football game will be donated to local charities. According to Holly Breen, a longtime AHS staff member and one of the organizers of the game, it hasn’t been decided where the proceeds will go this year. Last year, they were given to Neighbors in Need, a charity that focuses on stopping hunger in Lawrence and the surrounding area.

Breen also said the majority of planning has been done, but some administrative duties remain. For example, the t-shirts that have been sold in the past with team names are still in progress, since the team names are still being decided. However, the last day to vote for a team name is Friday, November 1st.

Breen talked about how this tradition has been happening for as long as she can remember. When asked about a notable memory from this annual event, she recalled that one night, “We had an absolute pour down [of a] rainstorm where we had to do it in the field house.” In addition to this memory, Breen noted that every charity football game is remarkable, due to the entertaining half-time shows, competitive spirit throughout the night, and most importantly, for being an opportunity for all Andover citizens to give back to their community.