Title: The Issue of Gender: New Legislation Bans Transgender Women from Participating in Sports
Author: Jillian Slotnick
Position: Sports Editor
Category: Articles, feature, Sports, Trending
Date: MAY 06, 2025
Tags: gender, lgbtq, politics, trans
Description: The whistle blows, cleats pound against the turf, and sweat drips as athletes compete under the stadium lights.

The whistle blows, cleats pound against the turf, and sweat drips as athletes compete under the stadium lights. For many students, the field is a place of competition, teamwork, and passion. But for transgender athletes, it can also be a battleground for identity and acceptance. With new legislation from President Donald Trump restricting transgender women from competing in women’s sports at the collegiate and secondary level, the stakes have never been higher.

In a move that has reignited the ongoing debate over transgender athletes in sports, President Trump has introduced an order restricting transgender women from competing in women’s sports. On February 5, Trump signed an executive order, titled “Keeping Men Out of Women’s Sports,” which states that Title IX requires that women’s and girls’ sports should be limited to individuals who were biologically female at birth, and threatens federal funding for institutions allowing transgender women and girls to compete in women’s sports. Title IX is a federal law that prohibits sex-based discrimination in any education program receiving federal financial assistance. Over half of U.S. states have already enacted laws or regulations restricting the banning of transgender athletes from participating in sports based on their gender identity in K-12 and collegiate levels. A congressional bill seeking to enforce similar restrictions failed to pass the Senate on March 3, and the executive order and state-level actions continue to face legal challenges.

This policy, echoing a wave of similar conservative legislation across the U.S., has drawn strong reactions from both advocates and critics, with many arguing that it oversimplifies a complex issue involving science, fairness, and inclusion. These policies apply not only to athletes in the National College Athletic Association (NCAA) but also to those at the high school level, including those at Andover High School.

According to the Pew Research Center, political polarization in America is at an all-time high, with deep divides across parties on key issues like immigration, healthcare, and social justice. Social media and partisan news fuel differences between parties, which leads to distrust in the government and institutions. Additionally, this division has grown with the election of President Trump, causing strains on political discourse and dampening efforts to find common ground.

As debates continue, both Elbasiony and Long agree that education is key to fostering a more inclusive society. “If schools can’t allow trans athletes to compete on the teams they prefer, they should at least work to make them as comfortable as possible,” Long said. “Even small things like using the right pronouns and being flexible with language can make a big difference.”

For many schools, the issue is out of their hands. Kerry Cashman, Assistant Athletic Director at Andover High School, noted that schools must follow regulations set by governing bodies like the Massachusetts Interscholastic Athletic Association (MIAA). “Obviously we always want what’s best for our students, but it’s so difficult…we have to follow MIAA guidelines,” she said. ADs from across the state (including in the Merrimack Valley) have struggled with how to implement this new policy.

Currently, according to the MIAA’s “Gender and Participation” guidelines, “a student shall not be excluded from participation on a gender-specific sports team that is consistent with the student’s bona fide gender identity,” a policy in line with Massachusetts state law (M.G.L. c. 76, sec. 5), which prohibits discrimination in public schools based on gender identity. The U.S. Department of Education has since launched an investigation into the MIAA for “potential Title IX violations.” In response, the MIAA released a statement that said it, “has historically complied with all applicable federal and state laws” and that it is “currently seeking guidance from the Office of the Attorney General and [its] own legal counsel on [its] next step.”

Khaled Elbasiony, a student researching gender identity for his Capstone project, believes that misconceptions about transgender individuals play a significant role in shaping policy. “So many people are uninformed about gender identity,” he said. “If people actually understood the science, this wouldn’t be a big deal legislatively.” He emphasized that transgender women, even before transitioning, often do not have the same physical advantages as cisgender men. “There’s a common misconception that trans women have an overwhelming advantage, but a lot of trans people actually have hormonal imbalances that can put them at a disadvantage.” This is supported by research performed at the University of California San Francisco.

Many people believe the new policies are less about science and more about political control with house members such as U.S. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and other democrats agreeing with these sentiments. Additionally, the new executive order doesn’t consider any of the scientific complexities of gender identity in justifying the limitations on transgender athletes, with no mention of a scientific or biological backing for their claims.

For transgender athletes, these policies have real-life consequences. Florian Long, a transgender student who previously played soccer on the girl’s team, shared his struggles with acceptance in sports. “It would have been better to play on the boys’ team because I felt more at home there, and they treated me better.” Long has since quit soccer and is now focused on music.

Long and many others fear that the new legislation will force transgender athletes into an impossible choice: either participate in a sport where they feel unwelcome or quit altogether. “It’s going to make trans kids feel trapped,” said Long. “They’re either going to have to quit or deal with being in an environment where they aren’t accepted. Seeing people like you in sports is an amazing experience. It’s important for kids who are figuring out who they are to know that they belong.”

The question of fairness remains at the heart of the debate. While some argue that transgender women may have competitive advantages, others advocate for policies that support inclusion while ensuring a level playing field. Elbiasony was quick to point out that although it’s not fair to expect people to be comfortable in a team that doesn’t align with their gender, it might be best for athletes to transition before they play on a team different from their sex at birth.

Beyond athletics, the conversation about transgender athletes reflects larger societal debates about gender, identity, and rights. Elbasiony pointed out that the polarization surrounding transgender issues stems from the way society categorizes people. “Labels create division,” he explained. “When you put people into strict categories, it objectifies them. That’s part of why America is so politically divided right now.”

Long believes that, ultimately, policymakers should focus on creating a more accepting environment rather than restricting opportunities. “Trump and others pushing these policies should stay out of other people’s business,” Long said. “This [order] makes trans kids feel invalid and stuck in places where they aren’t happy.”