Title: Two Murals to be Painted Promoting the Sustainable Garden
Author: Julie Mahoney
Position: Copy Editor
Category: Articles, Arts
Date: JAN 25, 2024
Tags: garden, murals, painting
Description: Two murals will be painted by the National Art Honors Society in collaboration with the Sustainable Garden Club.

Two murals will be painted by the National Art Honors Society in collaboration with the Sustainable Garden Club.

Promoting native wildlife in Massachusetts as well as the AHS garden, the murals will be located in the two entrances to the garden. This artistic change aims to make the staircase leading to the courtyard more inviting and generate student interest in the garden.

Designed by the National Art Honors Society (NAHS), the murals will be painted in early 2024 after months of planning. “The process is pretty long since there are lots of regulations about murals… but in the end, it’ll be worth it!” said Senior and Sustainable Garden Co-President Claire Tompkins.

“The garden is meant to be a sustainable way for students and staff to get involved with nature in their community in a fun and unique way,” Tompkins added.

The NAHS has put many hours into the process, with each member contributing something to the mural. The members “split up into small groups to create illustrations of different pollinators, plants, and animals that represent wildlife here,” said Senior and Co-President of the NAHS Zara Hayat.

Although the NAHS is primarily working with the Sustainable Garden Club, the Design Media class and Environmental Sustainability Internship Class are involved. “The balance of in school courses and extracurricular clubs allows for a wide range of representation and contributors,” said NAHS advisor Meghan Michaud.

The mural design is being finalized and focuses primarily on pollinators because of their sustainability. The designs also include local wildlife and previous work that the Sustainable Garden Club has completed like birdhouses.

Hopefully, the murals will make the garden an outdoor study and class space for students who would like a change of pace and to bring attention to the less used stairwells on the second and third floor. The murals are planned to be completed this spring.