Title: Volunteering’s Flip Side
Author: Clara Strong
Position: Staff Writer
Category: Articles
Date: JUN 09, 2025
Tags: N/A
Description: The sun is shining and the air is fresh with possibility.
ImageFile 1: https://i0.wp.com/andoverview.net/wp-content/uploads/2025/06/celeste_picture.jpeg?resize=353%2C633&ssl=1
ImagePlacement 1: Middle Center
ImageCaption 1: Celeste Miner holds freshly-picked onions at the Giving Garden
ImageCredit 1: COURTESY PHOTO / Emily Strong

The sun is shining and the air is fresh with possibility. Rows of green stretch out in front of you, punctuated by dots of yellow and red vegetables and volunteers waving hoses over tiny carrots. Though the air is hot, the wind is refreshing, and it feels good to get off TikTok for a while. Your friend walks by you, carrying a box of lettuce.

“We harvested enough today to feed 330 people!” they yell, and you grin back at them, knowing that children will go to bed with full stomachs because of your hard work. Your hands are dirty from pushing beans into the ground, but you know that in a few months, you’ll be able to come back and see the fruits—and vegetables—of your labor.

Everyone knows volunteering is great for the cause and the community, but it can also be a huge benefit to the volunteer. It can give people a purpose and a community with shared interests. Plus, when volunteering involves manual labor outdoors, that exercise and fresh air is great for well-being. According to a [study](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamanetworkopen/fullarticle/2805381) of teens and kids by Kevin Lanza at the University of Texas Health in Houston, volunteering is associated with a lower rate of anxiety and higher well-being.

One reason why volunteering is such a benefit to mental health is that it gives the volunteer a community of people with shared interests. According to Betsey Desfosse, a health teacher at Andover High School, “Kids will say they don’t feel a sense of connectedness to their community, to a cause, or a close connection to other people, but volunteering can definitely promote that [connection]… It expands your social circle.”

“It’s really good to get outside and be connected to the community,” said junior Celeste Miner. “[If] I find that if I’m feeling down or something,  [volunteering] really helps me boost my energy.” Miner regularly volunteers at the Giving Garden, a community garden in North Andover that donates what it grows to local food pantries. The Garden teaches kids about gardening, the outdoors, and hunger relief, and it operates with the help of hundreds of volunteers.

There are many ways to volunteer, and there’s something for everyone. “A lot of volunteers have fun with it,” said Emily Strong, the Farm Manager at the Giving Garden. “Some find it very therapeutic to be out in the sunshine [doing] repetitive tasks… You can just get lost in your own thoughts or in conversation while you’re doing the work. It’s a really nice change of pace from modern life. Other people… come out with a group of friends so that it’s just something that they can all do together.”

Freshman Mo Gearin has enjoyed many of these benefits during his five years volunteering for Eco Team, a program run by the Andover Village Improvement Society (AVIS). Eco Team focuses on removing invasive plants and promoting native ones on Andover’s trails. “The people there are great… they’re all fun to talk to,” Gearin said about Eco Team. “I like learning about… the plants and how they impact the biodiversity, and other interesting environmental factors of different forests… There’s also muffins. Amy makes amazing muffins.”

For young people who are disappointed by the current political climate, volunteering can be an effective way to boost self-confidence, hope, and tenacity. As Strong put it, “for young people in particular, coming and volunteering at the Garden and growing food for your neighbors is [a] great way to feel the sense of self-efficacy. [That’s] the sense of ‘I can make a difference.’ For young people who can’t vote, and may feel like they don’t have a voice on what’s going on in the world… this is a way that they can have a positive impact and make a very tangible difference in the world.”

People may think of volunteering as unpaid manual labor, but in fact, there are many ways to volunteer that require very different skill sets. It doesn’t even have to be in-person or a regular time-commitment. According to Desfosse,“There’s plenty of things anybody can do behind the scenes… even if they feel like they’re maxed out in their schedule, [like setting] up a Sign-Up Genius or [making a] flyer.”

Furthermore, the benefits of volunteering extend into adulthood. According to another [study](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC5612372/) by Jinho Kim and Kerem Morgül at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, volunteering as a teen is linked with higher earnings, more schooling, and better well-being as an adult. This could be because it benefits college applications, but it is likely also because while volunteering, you’re developing valuable skills and qualities that will be used a lot later in life.

If a student is interested in volunteering somewhere, Strong recommended starting with many places and narrowing it down as you go. “If you get a few volunteer hours while helping out at different places… that’s really good because you get to explore more things… On the other hand, the more often you volunteer somewhere, the more skilled you become. I have volunteers who come regularly, and I don’t need to go teach them anymore… and [they] can feel good because [they] don’t need to be babysat… That’s a neat experience for kids who have the time to come regularly.”