Title: Yellow Tulip Project Plants 1,500 Tulips as Hope Garden
Author: Saarvi Deshwal
Position: Layout Editor
Category: Articles
Date: DEC 14, 2024
Tags: N/A
Description: Students plant yellow tulips to create a “Hope Garden” and raise awareness for mental health.

Each student was provided with a slip of biodegradable paper to write on and plant alongside their tulip. They were encouraged to dedicate their bulb to a personal hope or for somebody in their lives they care for who may be affected by mental health challenges. Mary Testa, a guidance counselor and the Yellow Tulip Project advisor, worked with students and faculty to organize the planting and emphasized the importance of each student connecting personally with their tulip.

“I really think [that] instead of just putting a tulip in, giving students an opportunity to write a hope, write down something that they wish, or write someone that they may be worried about … [lets them] feel connected to it, and is really impactful,” said Testa.

The timing of the planting aligns with the organization’s larger mission. Once they bloom in May, the tulips will coincide with Mental Health Awareness Month, forming a “Hope Garden” outside of the school.

“A yellow tulip is a symbol of hope,” said senior Bailey Heckman, a leader of the Yellow Tulip Project at AHS. “Every student planted a bulb because every student matters and should feel supported by their school.”

“Mental health impacts everybody,” added Testa. “Whether it’s the person or someone… they care about.”

Organizing this event took effort, from coordinating hundreds of students to ensuring the bulbs were planted properly. However, with the help of faculty like David Hughes and members of the Yellow Tulip Project, the process went smoothly.

Work on the garden isn’t over, though; its success also depends on future care. Testa expressed concerns about the drought and ensuring the tulips are not mowed over once spring garden care begins. Testa is optimistic about a celebration in May once the tulips have bloomed.

The Yellow Tulip Project hopes to grow the garden each year. This year, every grade except for the freshman planted bulbs. Moving forward, incoming freshmen will learn about the Yellow Tulip Project and add their own tulips to the garden during their sophomore year.

The club is planning to bring future projects to AHS, such as bringing therapy dogs for finals week, making posters to promote mental health awareness around the school, and hosting an event for May’s Mental Health Awareness Month.

Beyond the visual impact of the Hope Garden, the Yellow Tulip Projects aims to create lasting change at AHS by fostering open discussion about mental health.

“[We want] to evoke conversation around mental health, and to bring awareness,” said Heckman. “If you broke your leg, you would go to the doctor. It should be the same process with mental health: if you are continuously feeling down or depressed, you should get help from a doctor.”

*If you or someone you know is struggling, remember that help is available. School counselors are available to talk, or you may call or text the 988 Suicide and Crisis Lifeline, available 24/7.*